in the last two videos,
we've seen how you can explore the values of expressions and variables by hovering over
different elements of code while you're working in break mode.
And also,
by using the immediate window in this video,
we'll look at a tool which is slightly more convenient and dynamic than these two methods.
The watch window.
Let's go back into our debug in practice file and just open up on a module.
Let's work with the same procedure that we saw before.
Let's say that we want to monitor the following expressions of values.
First of all,
we want to keep tabs on the value of I.
Secondly,
we want to know the number of tables still remain in using this document or tables,
not count.
Thirdly,
we want to know whether I is greater than this document dot tables not count,
which will indicate to us whether it's possible to delete the table whose index is the
current value of I.
And finally,
let's say we want to display the first paragraph within the table that's about to be
deleted because,
of course,
that's the name of the month.
We can add all four of these items as watches in the watch window.
To do this,
we display the wash window.
Like all the other floating panels,
it's under the view menu and the first technique we can use his dragon drop.
So if we want to monitor,
I weaken,
simply highlight it and drag it into the waters window.
You can also use this technique simply to save yourself some type in.
So we want this document dot tables not count.
We've got part of that code here.
So he contract that into the waters window and then simply edit the watch by right clicking
on it and choose in edit watch.
And,
of course,
that option is also available under the debug menu.
So here we just go and complete our statement,
so we just add in dot com.
We can use the same technique again for the third thing that we wanted.
So let's just drag that back in on and edit the watch.
So this time we wanted to test whether I is greater than this document start tables that
counts,
and we can use the same technique again for the full thing that we were after,
which is the first paragraph of the table that's about to be deleted.
So this time we would highlight all the way up to here,
and I'll just track that in,
then edit it.
So we want this document that tables I not range off paragraphs one in the first paragraph
and then to pick up the actual text.
We need not range,
don't text.
And we can just make this color a bit wider so we could see the whole statement.
Now we're ready to use all of these.
And all we've got to do,
basically,
is as we step through,
we just constantly monitor them.
So they are dynamic.
As soon as we start to run the code,
all step through the code,
then they'll come to life and display the current value as the program runs.
So F eight and three out of the four have come to life.
Obviously,
this one's a bit premature.
We haven't got into the for loop yet,
so I hasn't been set toe one.
I think that a bit wider.
So this could read.
The requested member of the collection does not yet exist because,
of course,
it will do shortly.
So basically,
we keep President F eight and as soon as we get into the loop I becomes one Ondas.
You can see we have January picks up as being the first paragraph in the table.
It's picks up the end of cell marker as well,
but that's not a big deal.
It helps us to identify which table is currently being dilated and then we just keep
stepping through.
And of course,
when we get to this point,
as soon as I becomes seven and this document dot tables not counters fall into six,
the requested member of the collection does not exist,
so we execute this line.
We know that we're going to get the era.
So although we do know what the problem is,
you can see how we can highlight the problem on what's causing the that the error by using
the watch window and just keep in tabs on what's going on by displaying the values off thes
key expressions and variables.
So I'm just gonna come out of break modes,
go back to word and just used the global on do to get rid of everything we've done using
our macro.
So what we've created there are basically called watch expressions,
and this is the default type of watch.
So when you create a watch,
it's called a watch expression,
and you simply monitor its current value.
As you step through your code.
However,
there are other types of watches,
so let's take an example of one of those.
Let's take this watch and just edit it and you will see here we've got in the what type
section two other types of water is break when value is true on break when value changes.
So in this case,
rather than step in through the code,
we could have this as a break when value is true.
Watch so soon as the value of I is greater than the number of tables remaining,
this watch expression will become true and will go into break mode so we don't need to step
through,
be simply run the macro as normal.
And then,
at the point where this statement becomes true,
that's when we're going to break mode so we can see we got to that critical point where
we've got six tables left and I has reached seven.
So we're attempting to delete the non existent Table seven.
Let's just reset again,
undo everything and just edit the type one small break when valued changes in this
particular case will give us the same result.
Because,
of course,
up until that point,
this statement will be true.
When it reaches that critical point,
it then changes the false.
So at that point,
we're going to break mode,
so the same thing basically will happen.
Actual fact.
What's happened here is it's changed from true to false because obviously ah,
we've been used it previously,
and its previous Paddy was true has now changed to false.
So we've got into brake mode at this point.
If we run again,
then of course,
the next change occurs at that critical point.
So again we go back into brake mode.
So both of these alternatives are very useful techniques where you don't so much want to
monitor expressions.
You simply want to jump to those critical points in the code where the value of those
expressions,
all those variables suddenly changed by default.
The watch window is used to create watch expressions to dynamically monitor the values of
variables and expressions as you step through your code.
In addition,
the alternative watch types break when value is true break when value changes could be used
to create conditional break points